README.md, before:

# De-Id

Local text de-identification tool. Paste text containing personal information, and De-Id redacts emails and names — all processing stays on your machine.

<img width="978" height="589" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/0e7e1c75-2048-48d5-8cc7-f8983eaa2379" />


## Download

Grab the latest release for your platform from the [Releases page](https://github.com/sdrshnv/deid/releases).

| Platform | File |
|---|---|
| macOS (Apple Silicon) | `De-Id_<version>_aarch64.dmg` |
| macOS (Intel) | `De-Id_<version>_x64.dmg` |
| Windows | `De-Id_<version>_x64-setup.exe` or `.msi` |
| Linux | `De-Id_<version>_amd64.deb` or `.AppImage` |

## Installation

**macOS:** Open the `.dmg` and drag De-Id to Applications. On first launch, macOS will block the unsigned app. If you see a "damaged and can't be opened" error, run:

```sh
xattr -cr /Applications/De-Id.app
```

Otherwise, go to **System Settings > Privacy & Security**, scroll down, and click **Open Anyway**.

**Windows:** Run the `.exe` installer. Windows SmartScreen may warn about an unrecognized app — click **More info** then **Run anyway**.

**Linux (`.deb`):** `sudo dpkg -i De-Id_*.deb`

**Linux (`.AppImage`):** `chmod +x De-Id_*.AppImage && ./De-Id_*.AppImage`

## Prerequisites

De-Id detects **email addresses** using built-in pattern matching (always available).

For **name detection**, you need [Ollama](https://ollama.com) running locally with the `qwen3:4b` model:

```sh
ollama pull qwen3:4b
ollama serve   # if not already running
```

A status indicator in the app header shows whether Ollama is connected. Without Ollama, the app falls back to regex-only mode (emails only).

## How It Works

The app has a two-panel layout: paste text on the left, click **De-Id**, and the de-identified text appears on the right with PII replaced by `[REDACTED-email]` or `[REDACTED-name]` placeholders. Click the output to copy it to your clipboard.

Detection uses a hybrid approach — regex for emails (instant) and Ollama for names (requires the local LLM). Overlapping detections are deduplicated automatically.

## Tech Stack

- [Tauri v2](https://v2.tauri.app) — desktop framework
- [SvelteKit](https://svelte.dev/docs/kit) + [Svelte 5](https://svelte.dev) — frontend
- [Ollama](https://ollama.com) — local LLM for name detection

## License

MIT

Commit message:

Add file path redaction and update docs for 0.4.0 release
File paths are now detected and redacted alongside emails and names.
Documentation and UI text updated to reflect file path support.
Regex-only mode now includes file paths when Ollama is unavailable.

README.md, after:

# De-Id

Local text de-identification tool. Paste text containing personal information, and De-Id redacts emails, names, and file paths — all processing stays on your machine.

<img width="978" height="589" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/0e7e1c75-2048-48d5-8cc7-f8983eaa2379" />


## Download

Grab the latest release for your platform from the [Releases page](https://github.com/sdrshnv/deid/releases).

| Platform | File |
|---|---|
| macOS (Apple Silicon) | `De-Id_<version>_aarch64.dmg` |
| macOS (Intel) | `De-Id_<version>_x64.dmg` |
| Windows | `De-Id_<version>_x64-setup.exe` or `.msi` |
| Linux | `De-Id_<version>_amd64.deb` or `.AppImage` |

## Installation

**macOS:** Open the `.dmg` and drag De-Id to Applications. On first launch, macOS will block the unsigned app. If you see a "damaged and can't be opened" error, run:

```sh
xattr -cr /Applications/De-Id.app
```

Otherwise, go to **System Settings > Privacy & Security**, scroll down, and click **Open Anyway**.

**Windows:** Run the `.exe` installer. Windows SmartScreen may warn about an unrecognized app — click **More info** then **Run anyway**.

**Linux (`.deb`):** `sudo dpkg -i De-Id_*.deb`

**Linux (`.AppImage`):** `chmod +x De-Id_*.AppImage && ./De-Id_*.AppImage`

## Prerequisites

De-Id detects **email addresses** and **file paths** using built-in pattern matching (always available).

For **name detection**, you need [Ollama](https://ollama.com) running locally with the `qwen3:4b` model:

```sh
ollama pull qwen3:4b
ollama serve   # if not already running
```

A status indicator in the app header shows whether Ollama is connected. Without Ollama, the app falls back to regex-only mode (emails and file paths only).

## How It Works

The app has a two-panel layout: paste text on the left, click **De-Id**, and the de-identified text appears on the right with PII replaced by `[REDACTED-email]`, `[REDACTED-name]`, or `[REDACTED-file]` placeholders. Click the output to copy it to your clipboard.

Detection uses a hybrid approach — regex for emails and file paths (instant) and Ollama for names (requires the local LLM). Overlapping detections are deduplicated automatically.

## Tech Stack

- [Tauri v2](https://v2.tauri.app) — desktop framework
- [SvelteKit](https://svelte.dev/docs/kit) + [Svelte 5](https://svelte.dev) — frontend
- [Ollama](https://ollama.com) — local LLM for name detection

## License

MIT
